“The Design of Design”
 Chapter 11 & 12 summary and thoughts
Chapter 11:
In Chapter 11, the author explains how constraints may be friends, even if we do consider them as burdens.
He continues to describe how great composers such as “Bach” and great artists such as “Michelangelo” traversed constraints and created great masterpieces by using the constraints to their advantage. However, they still worked within other constraints because, it is easier to accept the challenges imposed, when working in each framework.
The author continues to explain the different constraints we may face, such as:
• Real constraints
• Obsolete once-real constraints
• Constraints misperceived as real
• Intentional artificial constraints
I agree with the author when about the different types of constraints. I think that when we can identify the difference between the types of constraints, we will be able to tackle issues and reach a great design quickly and accurately based on the constraints provided.
I also agree with the author when he continues to explain how specific constraints are easier to model than general constraints, even though the latter looks easier, it is not. “At first this seems wrong. One would offhand think it an easier assignment to ‘Design a 1,000-square-foot- house’ that to ‘Design a 1,000-square-foot- house for a family with two children of opposite genders, located in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, facing north.”
Chapter 12:
Chapter 12 describes the “Esthetics in Technical Design”. 
In this chapter, Brooks emphasizes a lot on design and the way things look. He stresses on the idea that “delight” is just as important as “firmness and usefulness” of a building. 
He explains how beauty in design is connected to elegance through parsimony, structural clarity and consistency. He continues to explain how style plays a role in the beauty of things as well. Style comes when there a “characteristic of detailing, minimization of mental effort, consistency across micro decisions and clarity”.
I think that the author tackled an issue that I never thought of before. I never thought that design was just as important as the task the code is supposed to do. But, after reading this chapter, I am convinced that design, and beauty in design must and should be thoroughly thought of.
